Lecture 4 Notes:

First thing before building an app is to plan things properly:

Plan:
1. Exactly know what to build - The UI design basically
2. Write Code
3. 


Inline CSS can be given inside JS objects and not like regular inline styles we give.
Although inline styles are not a preferred way to write your code. 


How do we make a dynamic card?

Props (Properties) :
When we want to dynamically pass some data to the component we pass it in the form of props
Something which we can pass it to the components. Since functional components at the end of the day is just a normal JS functions so props at the end of the day is just the arguments which we are passing into the functions.
Passing a prop to a component is just as passing an argument to the functions.
Props are all wrapped up and passed into the components in the form of objects

Configue Driven UI:
Our website/UI is driven by Data & Configues (data inside the API).
Controlling your UI based on data which comes from the backend.

Unique key prop:
Whenever we do a map we have to give a unique key compulsorily otherwise react will throw a warning.
Each of the item should have a unique key property.
Whenever we are looping to a list of items we have to give a key. 
key is a reserved word. 
We can also have indexes(loop) as our unique key but react itself says that never use indexes for representing a key. 
If our data does not have a unique id then we can use indexes but again it is not a good practice to use them.

But why?
All the children at the same level must be uniquely represented because whenever suppose a new card is to be added on the UI then if no key is added React will re-render the whole cards as it treats them similarly and without any partiality. 
So suppose a card comes at the 2nd position, React will again re-render whole cards if not given the keys. 
Now if we have given a unique ID to all the cards React will simply push the card on that position acc to its unique key.

